I, like Kevin said, I'm going to talk about modern startup financing. I have only been practicing law for 21 years, so what's old and what's new only spans that time frame for me. But I've seen a lot of changes to the startup ecosystem. YC's been a big part of a lot of the changes to the startup ecosystem in the way that financing is done.

So I picked this picture. These are called closing volumes. And every corporate lawyer who does private company or public company financing has a lot of these if they have been doing it for long enough. The legal teams used to get these bound volumes with all of the financing documents in them.

They have our names on them and the date. This doesn't happen anymore, but I just thought this was, I saved some of mine, I thought this was a good picture for this. So a lot of you are gonna already know what I'm about to talk about, but since this is startup school, I just wanna give some basics. So you have a company idea, and the first thing you're gonna do is form a corporation because it's a separate legal entity and it protects the founders from personal liability.

Right? We all know this. You can probably bootstrap it. You and your co-founders can bootstrap it for a little while, but eventually you're going to want to hire or grow and you need money to do that.

How do you do that? You can go ask your relatives for money, you can go to a bank and ask for a loan, or what most startups do is they sell a part of their company to raise money. So when you, as founders, you guys will buy common stock. That's how you become owners of your corporation.

And typically you will buy common stock for a fraction of a penny. You may contribute some intellectual property as part of that purchase, but basically you're going to be buying your stock and own 100% of it for nothing. You cannot raise a meaningful amount of money by selling common stock. So your option is to sell to investors a completely different class of stock called preferred stock.

Preferred stock is more expensive. Before, another kind of basic thing, I never know what kind of terminology people know. So I thought it'd be really helpful to take a look at this. These terms right here, so first of all, financing and round, they mean exactly the same thing.

Preferred equity financing, preferred stock round, preferred stock financing, series A financing, series C financing, these things all basically mean the same thing. It's fundraising by selling preferred stock at a calculated specific price per share. These terms, convertible round, note round, safe financing, we're going to talk about what the safe is, early stage round, early stage financing, these are all ways to describe a fundraising event where you're not selling preferred stock or common stock, you're selling convertible securities. Convertible securities are the right to get stock in the future.

It's a thing that, it's not itself stock, it converts into stock later. So I think that there are about 3 things that have changed a lot over the years. And the first one is structure. And by that, I just mean that the actual document that we use for early stage fundraising has changed.

And I'm going to talk about that more in a few slides. The other thing that is hugely different from the old days is access, because nowadays you can find fundraising documents online. And they come with annotations and e-signatures and it's just incredibly easy to get documents. Back in the olden days, the only way you could fundraise was by hiring a lawyer because there was no way to get the documents you actually needed to sell your preferred stock.

And the other thing that I think has changed a lot over the years is focus. I just remember, I don't ever remember anybody ever noticing how much time it took to do these financings in the past and how much focus it took away from founders building their company. Like I don't remember an investor or founder ever saying like gosh this is taking a month and a half I'd so much rather be building my company. I think today people notice and have figured out that it's not in anyone's best interest for people to be spending a lot of time fundraising.

So it's much faster. So what hasn't changed? Preferred stock financings are no longer the way that companies do their first fundraising, but that process and those documents themselves really haven't changed over the years. And I'll talk about that a little bit more in a second, but that's pretty much the same.

It's just the when that's changed. The other thing that hasn't really changed is I think there are two things that are super important to investors and to founders when they're fundraising. And those two things are valuation and dilution. So valuation is just the value of your enterprise.

And dilution is stock, like how much, you know, how much of your company have you sold? So if you are selling investors a percentage of your company, you previously owned 100% of it, after you sell some, you're not gonna own 100% of it, that's dilution. And then the last thing I just really wanted to add in here because I think it's really important to get this point across to people who are starting startups. Communication with investors has always been important because this is fundamentally about a relationship, right?

Investors are giving you money and you are being expected to take their money and turn it into a billion-dollar business. Whether or not you are succeeding or failing at that endeavor is so critical to communicate with your investors about that. So I think that that's something that has not changed over the years. Still super important to communicate.

So as I mentioned before, the old way of raising early money was to do a series A preferred stock financing. A is the first letter of the alphabet, so the first time that a startup would fundraise, it would be called a series A preferred stock financing. Okay, how did it work? So you take the valuation of your company, which is the overall value of your enterprise, you would divide it by the number of outstanding shares of capital stock that's mostly for a series A financing would just be the stock that the founders owned.

And that gets you a price per share. You would take that price per share and you would sell your preferred stock to your investors. So now, well back then, angel investors, I'm sure you guys have heard about angel investors, they used to aggregate into consortiums and so they would tend to all band together and write one big check. So for your series A financing, you would have maybe a couple of angel groups and you would raise about 1.5 to 2 million dollars in your series A preferred stock realm.

Angel groups now write individual checks. Doesn't really happen like in consortiums anymore. Anyway, then you would negotiate the terms of the preferred stock. So the lead investor and you, the company, would have you each get your own legal counsel.

The lawyers would go back and forth. They would negotiate the terms with the first talk which means voting rights, liquidation rights, pro rata rights, and then you'd end up with a set of documents that go in those closing volumes. And there was, you know, there's about five of them. This took months and it could cost anywhere in legal fees from 25 to $100,000.

Okay, so what's broken about that? Well, that's pretty elaborate, right? Takes a long time. It costs, I just told you it could cost, you know, 25 to 100K, on legal fees to do this, so it's kind of a big deal.

But I think that the thing that was most broken about it was how inflexible it was. Jared's probably gonna touch on this. The cost of starting a company has decreased a ton over the years. Not so much for software and e-commerce companies, I'm sorry, not so much for hard tech companies, but software and e-commerce companies, the price of actually starting these startups has way decreased.

And as a result, companies actually don't need to raise 1.5 to 2 million dollars just to get off the ground. And having to do these long, elaborate, expensive financings was not worth it. So it just wasn't at all flexible. So when a company would do a big series A round for its first round and then it was waiting to do its series B financing, sometimes it would run out of money in between.

And so oftentimes the company would then go to its lead finance, its lead investor rather in their series A financing and they would ask for a bridge loan. A bridge loan is a debt bridge between two financings. And these involve the note purchase agreement and a convertible promissory note, and sometimes there would be common stock warrants that would go with it. But basically it was a stop gap measure in between financing.

So again, keep in mind these financings I just told you were long and expensive so you aren't just doing them all the time and this is where bridge loan financings came in. At the heart of the bridge loan was this convertible promissory note. And a convertible promissory note was a loan. It had an interest rate.

It had a maturity date. It was a real note. But it also had a mechanic that would cause it to automatically convert into shares of stock when you did that next round. So if you got a bridge loan in between your series A and your series B, your convertible promissory notes would convert into shares of series B when that financing happened.

But along the way, and I honestly don't remember how this all came about, but people started to realize that just the convertible promissory note, not necessarily the note purchase agreement or the common stock warrants, but the convertible promissory note itself could actually be used as a standalone document and you could use it to fund companies and you could use it to fund not as a bridge but actually just the very first time that a company needed money. So this became a very appealing way to do your first fundraising event because instead of having all those documents, you had one document, the convertible promissory note, so you only had to negotiate the interest rate and the discount rate.